---
aip:
  id: 89100
  state: draft
  created: 2020-05-21
  scope: commerce cloud
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /89100
---

# Style Guide - Reasonable text conventions

APIs are public Salesforce documents at all effects. Just as in any other Salesforce document rigorousness, legality, trust, etc. is mandatory.

Trademarks, celebrity names, fictional character names, etc. **should not** be used anywhere in the API, unless there are very good reasons such as having an agreement with the appropriate third party.

APIs **must** be treated as any other Salesforce document, and embody all Salesforce values; Especially trust and respect.

## URI Style

URIs have separate components. The resource path should be use kebab-case. Any path parameters should use lowerCamelCase. Query parameters should also use lowerCamelCase.

## Path names conventions
Conventions are defined around the project structure to improve the predictability and discoverability of your API. This will enable a convention-over-configuration approach in any tooling written to consume your specification.

Files and directories **should** use kebab-case.

The root RAML document **should** placed in the root of the artifact and to be named:

* for APIs: `api.raml`.
* for public libraries meant to be reused outside of the artifact: `library.raml`
  *  If there are multiple libraries in the artifact use `library-`*name*`.raml`.

Each of the fragment types **should** stand in a directory named as the plural form of the fragment, for example:

* `traits/`
* `resource-types/`
* `security-schemes/`
* `libraries/` (for local libraries)
* etc.

Examples **should** stand in a directory named `examples/`.

The name of the file for each of the fragment types that stores a single entity (trait, resource type, etc.) **should** be directly correlated with the name of the entity, e.g: `traits/not-found.raml`, `security-schemes/oauth.raml`.

[Hungarian notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungarian_notation) or any other form of inclusion of type in the filename **should not** be used, e.g: `traits/not-found-trait.raml`, `security-schemes/security-oauth.raml`.

The usage of kebab-case for paths can be surprising. RAML does not impose a particular path name convention. The tooling MuleSoft provides seems to suggest snake_case, e.g: when a RAML fragment is imported in design center, it is added as something similar to : `exchange_modules/903f605e-10e6-421a-bdb4-f952f56eb6d9/....` In the RAML spec, however, it uses indistinctly kebab-case and lowerCamelCase. The reason behind the selection of kebab-case is because it matches the same style than the URL, which to some extend is a form of application of the principle of least astonishment.

