---
aip:
  id: 89230
  state: draft
  created: 2020-05-21
  scope: commerce cloud
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /89230
---

# Style Guide - Methods

_RESTful API methods are operations that are performed on a resource. The **optional** properties get, patch, put, post, delete, head, and options of a resource define its methods; these correspond to the HTTP methods defined in the HTTP version 1.1 specification_ [_RFC2616_](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt) _and its extension,_ [_RFC5789_](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5789) _._ [†](https://github.com/raml-org/raml-spec/blob/master/versions/raml-10/raml-10.md#methods)  
  
Methods **must** have a `displayName` set. This will become useful for documentation and code generation purposes.  
  
Methods `displayName` **must** be in lowerCamelCase, to maintain coherence with the rest of the API documentation.  
  
The resourceName used in `displayName` **must** be singular if it returns a single entity (a price, a product, etc.) otherwise it **must** be plural.  
  
`displayName` of methods performing [_CRUD_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete) operations **must** follow the pattern:  
`[create, get, update, delete]<ResourceName>`, e.g: `createPromotion`, `updateSourceCodeGroup`.  
  
`displayName` of methods performing _search_ operations **must** follow the pattern:  
`<searchResourceName>Search`.  
The `searchResourceName` refers to the type of data that is being returned by the search API. Often these API methods have names like `product-search` and the returned type is a `product`. In these cases the `displayName` `productSearch` **should** be used in order to tell the user that you can call this method to find products, as opposed to `productSearchSearch` which **must not** be used.  
  
`displayName` of methods **should not** use `byId`, as it is common to find resources accessed by passing the Id of a particular resource such as `productId`, `campaignId`, etc. It is so because this will be implied by the parameters of the method, which will expect a `productId`, `catalogId`, etc. e.g: `getPromotionsByIds` , `getPromotions`.  
  
Methods **must** have a `description` field set. This is the corner stone of a well documented API.  
  
Method’s `description` **must not** contain the word `TODO`. Nothing last forever, except `TODO` lines, those last forever and ever.  
  
`queryParameters` **must** be lowerCamelCase. This might seem like an error as kebab-case has been used across the board. It is not, it is an de-facto industry standard to have the query parameters as lowerCamelCase and URL segments as kebab-case .  
  
The outstanding importance of a good displayName for good documentation and code generation is primordial. Display names are specified to provide clients of an API with a concise, descriptive, human readable name. The name **should** tell the user what the method does, e.g. what action it performs on what resource.  
  
To ease developer adoption of our APIs having a consistent naming scheme for our methods is important. For example, many APIs will have search methods for performing a search for a type of resources, e.g. `prices`, `products`, etc. If all the search APIs follow a common pattern then a developer will remember this and will have an easier time finding the appropriate method for the action she wishes to perform. If APIs are inconsistent then a developer will need to remember that to search for a product she must call `productSearch` but for prices she must call `searchPrices` and for orders its `performOrderLookup`.  
  
Some examples of fictitious methods for reference:

```
/organizations/{organizationId}/computers:
  post:
    displayName: computerSearch
  /{computerId}:
    get:
      displayName: getComputer
    put:
      displayName: createComputer
    patch:
      displayName: updateComputer
    delete:
      displayName: deleteComputer
```
