---
aip:
  id: 89240
  state: draft
  created: 2020-05-21
  scope: commerce cloud
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /89240
---

# Style Guide - Responses

_The resources and methods sections of this document describe HTTP requests. This section describes the HTTP responses to method invocations on resources._ [†](https://github.com/raml-org/raml-spec/blob/master/versions/raml-10/raml-10.md#the-root-of-the-document)  
  
Response codes **must** have a `description`. This is the corner stone of a well documented API.  
  
Response codes `description` **must not** contain the word `TODO`. Nothing last forever, except TODO lines, those last forever and ever.  
  
Response codes **must** have at least one `2##` or `3##` response code for all API definitions. As otherwise it would have no business value and it’s probably a forgotten orphan endpoint.  
  
Response codes **should** have an example, unless there are very good reasons to not to have one. This example **should** contain realistic data. Data types where there are distinct subsets of input, for example, where certain properties are only valid under mutually exclusive conditions, **should** have an example for each. These examples **must not** be full of default data type values (everything false, 0 empty string, etc) as the goal of these examples is to be useful to someone trying to understand the API.  
  
**note:** It is most important that the DataType have examples: APIs will pull the documentation and examples from the type they return if no example and documentation is specified.

## Error Responses

`ErrorResponse` defined in the [API Standards](https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/893f605e-10e2-423a-bdb4-f952f56eb6d8/api-standards/) RAML library **must** be used in case of error. Teams **may** derive their own error response types from `ErrorResponse`.  
  
`ErrorResponse.type` **must** be unique across Commerce Cloud. This is an unequivocal identification of the error and therefore must be unique.
