---
aip:
  id: 89400
  state: draft
  created: 2020-05-21
  scope: commerce cloud
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /89400
---

# Commerce Cloud Definition of Done

## Introduction
The project Mercury (introduced in the document [Project Mercury](https://salesforce.quip.com/q39kAZibtFsH)) is composed by a few dozens APIs to be delivered in a short period of time. Those APIs must achieve not only the functional and non-functional requirements described in elsewhere, but also must provide the expected outcomes for documentation and for the auto-generation of software development kits.

It is hence that concise, correct and validated RAMLs are required to not create issues along the tooling as well as for the correct generation of SDKs and documentation. This document describes the expectations for a correctly defined RAML API. The document does not cover any form of definition of done for API implementations (services), it only covers API specifications.

*Automatic validation of the following standardized statements **may** be assumed, but human validation of them **must** happen*. Meaning that even having the API validated with automated tools, the level of excellence aimed for will not be reached as not everything can be automatically checked. Manual review, understanding and styling will still be necessary and hence the process is human driven with some level of automated validation.

## Related documents
This document builds on top of already existing documents and other materials. A few of them are referenced here as big influences this document:

*  [Project Mercury](https://salesforce.quip.com/q39kAZibtFsH) - Introduction to the project
* [Mercury - URL evolution through architectural stack - broken down](https://salesforce.quip.com/DPHSAq2yErbl) - How a request evolves through the stack end-to-end
* [API and API schema Versioning](https://salesforce.quip.com/A167AQE4bR15) - Describes how our APIs will be versioned both internally and externally
