---
aip:
  id: 1
  state: approved
  created: 2018-08-20
  updated: 2020-07-24
  type: process
  scope: meta
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /1
redirect_from:
  - /01
  - /001
  - /0001
---

# AIP Purpose and Guidelines

As the Salesforce Customer Success Platform has grown in services and products,
so has the variance in our customer facing APIs. The API Stewardship Committee
aligns the varying APIs into a consistent standard so we can
present a unified platform to our customers.

The Committee has adopted [Google's AIPs][aip.dev] as a method for
documenting, maintaining, and presenting this standard.

## What is an AIP?

AIP stands for **API Improvement Proposal**, which is a design document
providing high-level, concise documentation for API development. AIPs
serve as the source of truth for API-related documentation and the means by
which API teams discuss and come to consensus on API guidance. AIPs are
maintained as Markdown files in the [AIP GitHub repository][https://git.soma.salesforce.com/API-Stewardship/sf.aip.dev].

## Types of AIPs

There are several different types of AIPs, described below. The list of AIP
types may evolve over time as necessary.

### Guidance

These AIPs describe guidance on API design. These are provided as instruction
for API producers to help write simple, intuitive, and consistent APIs, and are
used by API reviewers as a basis for review comments.

### Process

These AIPs describe a process surrounding API design. They often affect the AIP
process itself and are used to enhance the way in which AIPs are handled.

## Domain-specific AIPs

Some AIPs may be specific to a particular domain (for example, only to APIs
within a certain Cloud, organization, or even a certain team). In this
situation, the group will be given a particular block of AIPs to use in
accordance with [AIP-2][./0002.md], and the applicable AIPs will clearly indicate their
scope.

[aip.dev]: https://aip.dev
