---
aip:
  id: 2
  state: approved
  created: 2018-08-23
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: meta
permalink: /2
redirect_from:
  - /02
  - /002
  - /0002
---

# AIP Numbering

The AIP system provides a mechanism to index and have a single source of truth
for API Improvement Proposals, as well as iterate on them collaboratively and
transparently.

This document describes the AIP numbering system.

## Assigning AIP Numbers

The AIP editors (see [AIP 1](./0001.md)) are responsible for assigning a number
to each AIP when it is accepted as a draft for review. Importantly, _all_ AIPs
have numbers, not just approved ones. The [AIP Index][index] clearly delineates
which AIPs are approved and binding and which are under discussion.

The editors may decide to reserve a specific block of numbers for groups of
AIPs that are related in some way (for example, that are scoped only to a
specific subset of APIs).

Beyond this, AIP numbers are assigned arbitrarily. In general, the editors
take the next AIP number off of the stack to assign to a draft AIP, but
occasionally may use a special number if useful for mnemonic or other
reasons.

## Cloud blocks

A temporary solution to allow Salesforce Clouds and organizations to extend the AIPs to represent their standards is to have an assigned block. These will be replaced in the future by making AIPs extensible.

- **50000-59999:** Tableau
- **70000-79999:** Platform Services
- **80000-89999:** Commerce Cloud / Mercury

To request a block for a specific group, create an issue in the GitHub
repository.

### AIP overrides

If an organization wishes to override an existing AIP, organization AIP editors **should** use the same four digits of the original AIP. For example, if Commerce Cloud wanted to extend AIP 5000, the Commerce Cloud AIP editor **should** name the overriding AIP "AIP 85000." This will make it easier for AIP readers to reference the original AIP.

When possible, organization AIP editors **should** adhere to the original AIP as much as possible. This will enable Salesforce organizations to work towards a common standard. If possible, an AIP override should only include content that differs from the original AIP, and should not duplicate the original AIP content. 

Overriding content **should** be written within the same section header as the original content in the original AIP. If this is not possible, organization AIP editors **should** add new sections to their AIP override for their content.

### New cloud AIPs

Cloud organizations extending the AIPs may have standards that have not yet been defined in the Salesforce AIPs and therefore cannot be overridden. In this case, organization AIP editors **should** create a new AIP within the 9000 block of their organization block. For example, Platform Services would create a new AIP in the 79000-79999 block.

[0001]: ./0001.md
[aip.dev]: https://aip.dev
[98]: https://github.com/googleapis/aip/issues/98

[index]: {{ site.baseurl }}/general
