---
aip:
  id: 4
  state: approved
  created: 2020-03-06
  updated: 2020-07-24
  type: process
  scope: meta
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /4
redirect_from:
  - /04
  - /004
  - /0004
---

# AIP states

At any given time, AIPs may exist in a variety of states as they work their way
through the process. This page summarizes each state.

### Draft

The initial state for an AIP is the **draft** state. Draft AIPs are created
by the AIP Stewardship Committee and assigned a working group. Proposals for new AIPs by developers outside of the Committee should be created as an [issue in git.soma][issues].

**Note:** An AIP **cannot** move out of the **draft** state if it has any formal objections, in the form of "changes requested" on the GitHub PR, from any members of the working group.

### Reviewing

Once the assigned working group has generally concluded its discussion on an AIP,
it moves to the **reviewing** state. This means that the authors have reached a
general consensus on the proposal and it is ready to be presented to the API
Stewardship Committee. While in the **reviewing** state, the API Stewardship
Committee ensures that representatives from interested and affected clouds
are aware and accept the proposal.

### Comment

Once an AIP has been agreed upon by the API Stewardship Committee, it enters the **comment** state. In this state the AIP is considered accepted by the API Stewardship Committee and may be adopted by API Designers at their discretion. During this time the AIP is subjected to public comment, meaning that it may still be altered based on feedback from the implementers.

The public comment period lasts for 60 days from the time an AIP is removed from the **reviewing** status. During this time the AIP's guidance is still subject to _non-breaking_ changes. Non-breaking changes clarify indefinite facets of the standard without contradicting existing guidance. Early adopters may find these alterations to conflict with decisions they have made. For this reason early adopters are strongly encouraged to be actively involved in reviewing issues regarding AIPs in public comment.

If an AIP in the **comment** state must be changed in a breaking way, then it is treated the same way as an **approved** AIP and must be deprecated before being replaced.

### Approved

Once an accepted AIP has been in the **comment** status for 60 days, it
enters the **approved** state and is considered the best current practice.

**Note:** One architect on the API Stewardship Committee
and one AIP editor who was not part of the working group that drafted the AIP
**must** provide formal sign off to advance an AIP to the **approved** state.
Additionally, the AIP **must not** have formal objections, in the form of "changes requested" on the GitHub PR, from any members of the API Stewardship Committee.

### Withdrawn

If an AIP is withdrawn by the author or champion, it enters the **withdrawn** state.
AIPs that are withdrawn may be taken up by another champion.

### Rejected

If an AIP is rejected by the API Stewardship Committee, it enters the **rejected**
state. AIPs that are rejected remain visible because they provide documentation and reference
to inform future discussions.

### Deferred

If an AIP has not been acted upon for three months, the API Stewardship
Committee may mark it as **deferred**.

### Replaced

If an AIP has been replaced by another AIP, it enters the **replaced** state. AIP
editors **must** provide a notice explaining the replacement and
rationale. The replacement AIP should also clearly explain the rationale.

In general, API producers should rely primarily on AIPs in the **approved**
state.

[issues]: {{ site.github.repository_url }}/issues
