---
aip:
  id: 8
  state: approved
  created: 2019-05-28
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: meta
  modified: 2020-03-15
permalink: /8
redirect_from:
  - /08
  - /008
  - /0008
---

# AIP Style guide

AIP stands for **API Improvement Proposal**, which is a design document
providing high-level, concise documentation for API development. These
documents serve as the source of truth for API-related documentation at
Salesforce and the way API teams discuss and come to consensus on API guidance.

AIPs are most useful when they are clear and concise, cover a single topic or
inquiry well, and are consistent in their format. In the same way that AIPs
describe consistent patterns and style for use in APIs, they also follow
consistent patterns and style.

## Guidance

AIPs **must** cover a single, discrete topic, and **should** fundamentally
answer the question, "What do I do?" with actionable guidance. AIPs **may**
also cover what not to do, but **should not** cover anti-patterns only.

While the length of AIPs varies based on the complexity of the question, most
AIPs **should** be able to cover their content in roughly two printed pages.

### File structure

AIPs **must** be written in Markdown, and **must** be named using their
four-digit number (example: `0008.md`). Place AIPs that serve a specific scope
in the subdirectory for that scope. For example, place Mercury AIPs under the
`mercury` subdirectory.

AIPs **must** have appropriate front matter.

```yaml
---
aip:
  id: 8
  state: reviewing
  created: 2019-05-28
permalink: /8
redirect_from:
  - /08
  - /008
  - /0008
---

```

Front matter for AIPs **must** include:

- The `aip` key:
  - `id`: Required. The ID for the given AIP, as an integer.
  - `state`: Required. The current state of the AIP, in all lower-case. The
    valid states are listed in [AIP 4][AIP-4], and common states are `draft`,
    `reviewing`, and `approved`.
  - `created`: Required. The ISO-8601 date (`yyyy-mm-dd`) when the AIP was
    originally drafted, with no quotes.
  - `updated`: The ISO-8601 date (`yyyy-mm-dd`) when the AIP was last revised.
  - `scope`: The scope for the AIP. This **must** match the directory name for
    that scope. Required for AIPs with IDs >= 1000, prohibited otherwise.
- The `permalink` key (required): This **must** be set to
  `/{aip.scope}/{aip.id}`. If there is no scope, use `/{aip.id}` instead.
- The `redirect_from` key: This should include a list of any `/{aip.id}`
  permutations that a reader would be likely to enter, including:
  - `/{aip.id}`, for AIPs where the permalink includes the scope.
  - AIP IDs with zero-padding, for each level of zero-padding up to four digits
    (for example: `/08`, `/008`, `/0008`).

### Document structure

Begin the AIP with a top-level heading that includes the AIP's title
(`# Title`). The title **should** be a noun, not an imperative. For example,
"Bad API precedents" not "Avoid breaking API precedent".

After the title, include an introduction with no additional heading, followed
by a `## Guidance` heading.

You **may** include subsections that elaborate further on details in the
guidance section. Subsections automatically create an entry in the table of
contents and an anchor for citations.

If necessary, the AIP **may** include any of the following after the guidance,
in the following order:

- Further reading
- Appendices

Finally, include a changelog section.

### Example

This markdown is an example AIP shell that uses each major section:

```md
# AIP title

The introductory text explains the background and reason why the AIP exists. It
lays out the basic question but does not tell the reader what to do.

## Guidance

The guidance section helps the reader know what to do. A common format for the
guidance section is a high-level imperative, followed by an example, followed
by a bulleted list explaining the example.

### Subsection

Individual subsections can be cited individually and further elaborate details.

## Further reading

A bulleted list of of links, typically to other AIPs, in the following format:

- [AIP-1](./0001.md): AIP purpose and guidelines

## Appendix

An appendix is appropriate to capture non-trivial side discussions. It is
relatively rare but important when an AIP requires a lot of justification for
the decision. The appendix may explain historical reasons for the guidance,
alternatives considered, or other issues potentially of interest to the reader.

## Changelog

A bulleted list of changes in reverse chronological order, using the following
format:

- **2020-02-18**: Specified ordering.
- **2019-07-01**: Added a subsection clarifying XYZ.
```

AIPs **should** attempt to follow this overall format for consistency.

**Note:** Except for the title, AIPs **must** use only the second heading level
(`##`) and above. AIPs **should** use only the second and third heading levels
(`##`, `###`).

### Requirement keywords

AIPs **should** use the following requirement level keywords: "MUST", "MUST
NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", and "MAY", which are to be interpreted as
described in [RFC 2119][].

When using these terms in AIPs, they **must** be lower-case and **bold**. These
terms **should not** be used in other ways.

**Important:** If you use an appendix, it exists to provide background and a
more complete understanding, but **must not** contain guidance and **must
not** contain RFC-2119 terms.

### Code examples

Use [RAML][] for API design examples. Examples **should** cover only enough
syntax to explain the concept.

When providing an example, use [fenced code blocks][]. Use the correct
[language identifier][] with fenced code blocks.

    ```yaml
    ...

    ```

### References

An AIP **may** have a reference section to provide links to sources that
support the standards of the AIP. Add this section at the bottom of the AIP.
The reference section **must** contain only a bulleted list of links.

### Referencing AIPs

When AIPs reference other AIPs, the prosaic text **must** use the format
`AIP-XXXX` without zero-padding (e.g., `AIP-8`, not `AIP-0008`), and **must**
link to the relevant AIP. AIP links **may** point to a particular section of
the AIP if appropriate.

**Important:** AIP links **must** use the relative path to the file in the
repository (such as `./0008.md` for core AIPs, or `../0008.md` for AIPs in a
subdirectory); this ensures that the link works on the AIP site, when viewing
the Markdown file on GitHub, when using the local development server, or on a
branch.

### Referencing other AIP content

When referencing content in the AIP site that is not an AIP, **do not** use a
relative path. Instead, the link should utilize the [Liquid] `baseurl` object
to create an absolute path to the page.

```md
[contributing]: {{ "{{ site.baseurl " }}}}/contributing
```

[aip-4]: ./0004.md

<!--prettier-ignore-->
[raml]: https://github.com/raml-org/raml-spec/blob/master/versions/raml-10/raml-10.md/
[rfc 2119]: https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt

<!--prettier-ignore-->
[fenced code blocks]: https://help.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks#fenced-code-blocks

<!--prettier-ignore-->
[language identifier]: https://help.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks#syntax-highlighting
[prettier]: https://prettier.io/
[comment]: https://prettier.io/docs/en/ignore.html
[liquid]: https://shopify.github.io/liquid/basics/introduction/
[contributing]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contributing
