---
aip:
  id: 9
  state: reviewing
  created: 2019-08-01
  modified: 2020-07-24
  scope: meta
permalink: /9
redirect_from:
  - /09
  - /009
  - /0009
---

# Glossary

This AIP defines some common terminology used across many individual AIPs.

## Guidance

The following terminology **should** be used consistently throughout AIPs.

API
: Application Programming Interface. This can be a local interface (such as a
  client library) or a Network API (defined below).

API Backend
: A set of servers and related infrastructure that implements the business
  logic for an API Service. An individual API backend server is often called an
  API server.

API Consumer
: The person who is building a product using the API.

API Client
: The internal or external code that invokes an API Service.

API Definition
: The definition of an API, usually defined as a RAML specification. An API
  Definition can be implemented by any number of API Services.

API Frontend
: A set of servers plus related infrastructure that provides common
  functionality across API Services, such as load balancing and authentication.
  An individual API frontend server is often called an API proxy.

  **Note:** the API frontend and the API backend may run next to each other or
  far away from each other. In some cases, they can be compiled into a single
  application binary and run inside a single process.

API Producer
: The entity that produces an API Service. This is typically the team responsible for the API Service.

API Product
: An API Service and its related components, such as Terms of Service,
  documentation, client libraries, and service support, are collectively
  presented to customers as a API Product.

  **Note:** People sometimes refer to an API Product simply as an API.

API Method
: An individual operation within an API. A method is usually represented in terms of a typical HTTP method, and is mapped to a function in the API.

API Request
: A single invocation of an API Method. It is often used as the unit for
  billing, logging, monitoring, and rate limiting.

API Service
: A deployed implementation of one or more APIs, exposed on one or more network
  addresses.

API Service Definition
: The combination of API Definitions (RAML files) and API Service
  configurations used to define an API Service.

API Service Endpoint
: Refers to a network address that an API Service uses to handle incoming API
  Requests. One API Service may have multiple API Service Endpoints.

API Service Name
: Refers to the logical identifier of an API Service.

API Version
: The version of an API or a group of APIs if they are defined together. An API
  Version is often represented by a string, such as "v1", and presents in API
  requests.
