---
aip:
  id: 121
  state: approved
  created: 2020-07-24
  scope: general
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /121
---

# RESTful HTTP

The SF AIPs are a set of standards to provide a common user experience for the
consumers of the Salesforce REST HTTP APIs.

HTTP is a messaging protocol that defines a set of rules for sending requests
and receiving responses between multiple machines. REST is a convention which
defines patterns for transporting and manipulating state via a small set of
operations and pre-defined data models. When REST is implemented in HTTP the
result is a clear contract between services that defines a concise set of
[Methods][] to describe the state of [Resources][] between multiple systems.

What REST and HTTP don't do, is attempt to standardize on the commonality for
disparate services. In a particular Services ecosystem -- for example: Commerce
Platform -- having services obey a set of constraints around the way they are
exposed helps achieve a level of commonality via convention that will enable
them to interplay easily.

> **Description Through Standardization:** “_One alternative to explaining
> everything is to make your service like other services. If all services
> exposed the same representation formats, and mapped URIs to resources in the
> same way...well, we can't get rid of client programming altogether, but
> clients could work on a higher level than HTTP. Conventions are powerful
> tools: in fact, they are the same tools that REST uses. Event RESTful
> resource-oriented web service uses URIs to designate resources, and expresses
> operations in terms of HTTP's uniform interface. The idea here is to apply
> higher-level conventions than REST's, so that the client programmer doesn't
> have to write as much code._” - **Richardson and Ruby, RESTful Web Services**

The SF AIPS define the RESTful implementation of HTTP as standards to be
followed by the Salesforce TMP organization.

## References

- Roy Fielding's [dissertation][], which gave birth to REST.
- MuleSoft [API Best Practices][] series.
- [Heroku Guide extracted from Platform API work][].
- [Mozilla Developer HTTP Caching][].

[methods]: {{ site.baseurl }}/method-aips
[resources]: ./2000.md

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[dissertation]: https://www.ics.uci.edu/~fielding/pubs/dissertation/rest_arch_style.htm#sec_5_2_1_1
[api best practices]: https://blogs.mulesoft.com/dev/api-dev/api-best-practices-series-intro/
[heroku guide extracted from platform api work]: https://geemus.gitbooks.io/http-api-design/content/en/
[mozilla developer http caching]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
