---
aip:
  id: 122
  state: approved
  created: 2020-01-15
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: resource
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /122
---

# Resource names

Most APIs expose resources that users can create, retrieve, and manipulate. Resources are the primary components of a RESTful API URL. It's important to standardize the way resources are named so that they're familiar and consistent for API users.

## Guidance

Resource URIs typically alternate between collection identifiers and resource IDs. For example, collection identifiers are `publishers`, `books`, and `users`, and resource IDs are `123`, `les-miserables`, and `vhugo1802`.

REST uses a natural language approach by identifying its resources with nouns, just like you identify things in the real world by using nouns like "teapot", "mouse", and "bridge". With the exception of the `actions` resource described in [AIP 136][], only nouns **must** be used for resource naming. You **must not** use verb-noun combinations for resource names. You **must not** use verbs except for extremely rare occasions when a verb can be understood as a noun. For example, you can use `*/search` as a resource name when a `search` is understood as something that can be created, destroyed, etc. rather than an action.

The following list has examples of valid resource addresses:

```
*/orders // Orders in the system
*/customers/{customerId}/orders // Orders of a customer
*/customers/{customerId}/addresses // Known addresses of a customer
```

The following list has examples of invalid resource addresses:

```
/create-user
/edit-user
```

## Collection identifiers

The collection identifier segments of a resource URI refer to a collection of resources of the same type. When working with collection resources that retrieve many items, the resource collection name **must** be plural, for example `*/orders`.

Resources that represent singleton objects **should not** use plural nouns, for example `*/status`.

The resource name `actions` is reserved and **must not** be used except as described in [AIP 136][].

Multiple words in a collection identifier **should** be separated by a hyphen (`-`). Underscores, spaces, or other characters **should** be avoided for this purpose.

```
http://api.**commerce-platform.salesforce.com/inventory-management/location-groups/{locationId}/skus/{skuId} // More readable
http://api.**commerce_platform.salesforce.com/inventory-management/locationGroups/{locationId}/skus/{skuId} // Less readable
```

## Resource ID Segments

When accessing an individual resource from a collection of resources, the resource URI **must** follow the hierarchical nature of the resource URI guidance in [AIP 2000][AIP-2000]. For example, an individual order would be retrieved from a collection of orders with `*/orders/{id}`.

## Resource ID aliases

You **should** design your APIs so that you point to a distinct resource using the smallest number of references. When two endpoints point to the same resource a resource ID alias **should** be used:

```
*/customers/jdoe/orders/23121
*/customers/jdoe/last-order
```

In this example, only the first line is pointing to the actual representation of the resource, while `last-order` is an alias and would return a `307 Temporary Redirect`.

A `301 Move Permanently` may also be used in cases where the resource ID alias is permanent.

## References

* [Stack Overflow post on resource naming][SO-resource]
* [Best Practices for a Pragmatic Restful API][Vinay Sahni], Vinay Sahni
* [RESTful API Design: nouns are good, verbs are bad][Google Nouns]
* [API Best Practices: Nouns, CRUD, and More (Part 3)][Mule Nouns]
* [Resource Naming][]

[RCF-3986]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986
[AIP-2000]: ./2000.md
[AIP 136]: ./0136.md
[SO-resource]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6845772/rest-uri-convention-singular-or-plural-name-of-resource-while-creating-it
[Vinay Sahni]: https://www.vinaysahni.com/best-practices-for-a-pragmatic-restful-api
[Google Nouns]: https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/api-management/restful-api-design-nouns-are-good-verbs-are-bad
[Resource Naming]: https://restfulapi.net/resource-naming/
[Mule Nouns]: https://blogs.mulesoft.com/dev/api-dev/api-best-practices-nouns-crud-etc/
