---
aip:
  id: 132
  state: reviewing
  created: 2020-01-15
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: method
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /132
---

# Standard methods: List

In many APIs, you can usually request multiple resources by calling the standard list methods on the address of the resource collection (for example, `/books`).

## Guidance

APIs **should** support a `GET` method for resource collection unless there is a reason users don't need this. The purpose of calling `GET` against a resource collection is to return data from a single, finite collection.

### Request message

Queries against resource collections are retrieved using the HTTP `GET` method against the address of the resource collection address:

```
GET /books?author=McBookerson
```

In order to execute queries in a collection, a query parameter **must** be used. Query parameters **must** be in camel case.

**Note:** The requirement for query parameters to be in camel case differs from the hyphenated form of the resource path. The reason for the difference is to conform to common industry practices and avoid using characters that need special encoding.

### Response message

The response of a query against a resource collection **must** be an array:

```
[
  {
    "id": "book1",
    "title": "My First Book",
    "author": "McBookerson"
  },
  {
    "id": "book2",
    "title": "My Second Book",
    "author": "McBookerson"
  }
]
```

When a resource collection is empty, the server **must** return an empty collection, as opposed to a `404` or `null`.

Resource collection responses **must** use [pagination][].

### Ordering

The results of a resource collection **may** be ordered using some of its attributes. The order **must** be specified in an **orderBy** query parameter:

```
/books?author=McBookerson&orderBy=title
```

The `orderBy` query parameter **must** accept at least one order attribute.

You **may** use multiple attributes to sort the collection resources if you provide them in a comma separated list:

```
/books?author=McBookerson&orderBy=title,id
```

If multiple attributes are present in the `orderBy` expression they **must** be applied left to right. For example, the above query returns books ordered first by `title` and then by `id`.

The order expressions **may** contain the suffix `asc` or `desc` for ascending and descending respectively. These suffixes **must** be separated from the property via a colon (`:`).

```
/books?author=McBookerson&orderBy=title:asc,id:desc
```

In the absence of an ordering suffix, the server **must** implement ascending order.

Sort order **must** be alphanumeric, and any `NULL` values **must** sort as _less than_ non-`NULL` values.

To escape a colon in an ordering expression, two contiguous colons **must** be used.

### Filtering

Additional query parameters **may** be implemented for an API to support filtering. Query parameters used for filtering **should** be named following the template `{attribute}{filterVerb}`. For example, `books/authorStartsWith=McB`.

[pagination]: ./0158.md
