---
aip:
  id: 133
  state: approved
  created: 2020-01-15
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: method
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /133
---

# Standard methods: Create

To create a new resource within an API collection, it is customary to make a `POST` request to a resource collection URI
(for example, `/v1/publishers/{publisher}/books`). Standard create methods accept a body as part of the request and return the created resource.

## Guidance

APIs **should** provide a `CREATE` method for resources unless there is a reason users don't need to do this. The purpose of the `CREATE` methods are to create a new resource in an already-existing collection.

Currently the standard `CREATE` method supports only single resource creation. A future AIP will be written for batch creation.

### Request message

When using the service to create the resource ID, the `POST` method is **recommended**.

`POST` methods **must** be called against a resource collection (for example, `/orders`).

For example, to create a new `order` resource under the collection `orders`, the following pattern is used:

```
POST /orders

{
  "customerId": "1234"
}
```

If a resource is created as a result of the invocation, an HTTP response of `201` (Created) or `204` **should** be returned. The response **must** include the HTTP [`Location` header][] with a reference to the created resource. In this example, an order is created and the resource is returned:

```
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Location: https://api.cc.salesforce.com/orders/202112

{"firstNumber": 10, "secondNumber": 20}
```

A [resource action][] (for example, `/actions/create`) **must not** be used under any circumstance.

### Long running create

In the case of deferring the return of the created resource, a `202` **should** be used.

### User specified IDs

When the client side can safely generate the ID of the resource, the `PUT` method **should** be used. The `PUT` method is idempotent and can cache the result and safely retry the request in case of an error. This reduces the need for writing code to control side cases for errors with an in-flight request.

`PUT` methods **must** be called against the resource ID intended to be created (for example, `/orders/123`).

```
PUT /orders/{client-side-generated-id}

{
  "id": "{client-side-generated-id}",
  "customerId": "1234"
}
```

For responses, `PUT` behaves similar to `POST`. The response for a `PUT` request **must** contain the `Location` header, to maintain consistency with `POST`, even though the client already has the address of the resource created.

For more information on using `PUT` for performing updates, see [AIP 134][]

### Resource creation with concurrency

When first creating a resource, two separate clients may attempt to create the same resource. Although this is an edge case, you **should** be prepared to handle it. Use the `If-None-Match` header with a value of `*` to signify that the resource will be created only if it does not already exist.

```
Headers:
 If-None-Match:*
PUT /inventory-reservations/123
```

If a resource already exists and the header was passed in for `If-None-Match`, the server **should** fail the request with a status code of `412` (Precondition Failed).

## References

* [Conditional Requests][]

[AIP 134]: ./0134.md
[`Location` header]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_location
[resource action]: ./4500.md
[Conditional Requests]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Conditional_requests
