---
aip:
  id: 135
  state: reviewing
  created: 2020-01-15
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: method
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /135
---

# Standard methods: Delete

In REST APIs, it is customary to make a `DELETE` request to a resource's URI. For example, make a `DELETE` request to `/v1/publishers/{publisher}/books/{book}` to delete the specified book resource.

## Guidance

APIs **should** generally provide a delete method for resources unless there is a reason users don't need to do this. The HTTP verb for delete methods **should** be `DELETE`.

- The display name **must** begin with the word `delete`. The remainder of the
  display name **should** be the singular form of the resource's name.
- There **must not** be a `body` if the `DELETE` verb is used.

The `DELETE` method **should** succeed with a response code of `204` if and only if a resource was present and was successfully deleted.

### Long-running delete

Some resources take longer to delete than is reasonable for a
regular API request. In this situation, the API **should** use a long-running
operation instead. A response code of `202` **should** be returned.

### Protected delete

Sometimes, it may be necessary for users to ensure that no changes have been
made to a resource that is being deleted. If a resource provides an etag,
the delete request **may** accept the etag as either required or optional:

If the etag is provided and does not match the server-computed etag, the
request **must** fail with a `412` response code.

### Errors

If the user does not have permission to access the resource, regardless of
whether or not it exists, the service **must** error with response code `403`. Permission **must** be checked prior to checking if the resource exists.

If the user does have proper permission, but the requested resource does not
exist, the service **should** return with response code `404` or `202`.
