---
aip:
  id: 136
  state: approved
  created: 2020-01-15
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: method
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /136
---

# Custom methods

REST is especially well suited to CRUD operations (create, read, update, and delete) which are supported by the standard HTTP Methods (`POST`, `GET`, `PUT`/`PATCH`, and `DELETE` respectively). This limited set of verbs intentionally constrains expressiveness. Limited latitude for expression leads to a uniform interface across implementations. Nonetheless, sometimes it might be necessary to go beyond these methods (e.g. to reach a some degree of RPCfulness).

## Guidance

Standard REST methods **must** be preferred when possible. Before rushing into creating a custom method, remember that many actions can be re-characterized in terms of the standard REST methods.

In order to illustrate this with an example, consider a resource that is `pausable`. An API designer might consider modeling a custom `pause` method to support this feature. However, a `pause` state is perfectly achievable with the standard methods and resources as the `pausable` resource could have a `status` property that could be set to the `pause` state with `PUT` or `PATCH`. Additionally, the update of the `status` property can be conditionally executed based on the representation of the `pausable` resource (i.e. `PATCH If-Match`).

This example demonstrates how easy it is to fall in the trap of unnecessary action verbs. API designers and reviewers **must** always be disciplined in order to guarantee the preference of standard methods over custom methods.

Custom methods are implemented via the `actions` resource in the URL. The word `actions` **must** be used after a resource id to contain custom methods.

Custom methods **must** support _only_ `POST`. This limits the capabilities of the `actions` resource as compared to standard resources, which allow only standard methods. Because `POST` requests are not considered idempotent safe, `actions` are also not considered idempotent safe, thus the network layer does not automatically retry them.  In contrast in the example above, `PATCH` to modify pause state can be safely executed repeatedly.

Actions are currently the only supported way to define additional methods (for example, `X-HTTP-Method-Override` is not supported).

## Collection-based custom methods

Actions on collections **should** use a top-level `actions` delineation to avoid namespace conflicts and clearly show the scope of the action:

```
/actions/:action/resources
```

For example, to restart all servers:

```
/actions/restart/servers
```


## References

* [Heroku API Team on Actions](https://github.com/interagent/http-api-design/blob/master/en/requests/actions.md)
* [Google Cloud APIs - Custom Methods](https://cloud.google.com/apis/design/custom_methods)
* [5.1.5 Uniform Interface](https://www.ics.uci.edu/~fielding/pubs/dissertation/rest_arch_style.htm)
