---
aip:
  id: 140
  state: approved
  created: 2020-01-15
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: field
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /140
---

# Field Names

Naming fields intuitively is a challenging aspect of designing an API. A field name that makes sense to you can baffle the user if it contains jargon, technical terms, brand names, or vague words.

Additionally, users rarely use only one API; they use many APIs together. As a result, your users may be confused if your APIs use the same name to mean different things across your APIs, or different names to mean the same thing.

In short, APIs are easiest to understand when field names are simple, intuitive, and consistent with one another.

## Guidance

Property names **must** be descriptive.

The first character of the property **must** be a letter, an underscore (`_`), or a dollar sign (`$`), as demonstrated in the following examples:

```
{
  "lineItem": "I am a camel cased line item",
  "_orderNumber": 12345, // _ prefixed order number
  "$money": 100.00 //$ prefixed money
}
```

When the type of the property is an array, the property name **should** be a plural noun. For all other property types, the name **should** be a singular noun:

```
{
  "orderNumber" : "102312313", // Singular
  "lineItems" : [ // Plural
     {"itemId" : "2123",
      "quantity" : 200
     },
     ...
  ]
}
```

### Case

API designers have many different opinions around the preferred casing conventions for JSON attributes. Two popular approaches are snake case and camel case.

```
{"line_item": "I am snake case"}
{"lineItem" : "I am camel case"}
```

Salesforce APIs **should** use camel case. There are no industry standards or best practices that make camel case superior to snake case in terms of API design; camel case has been chosen to ensure consistency across Salesforce APIs.

With camel case, each word within a compound word is capitalized except for the first word. Words are not separated by spaces or characters.

### Repeated fields

While the JSON specification does allow for repeated fields, they **must not** be used in our APIs. When de-serializing repeated fields, JSON parsers may interpret the resulting values differently.

Avoid repeated fields by using an array property instead. For example, consider the following bad example:

```
{
  "alias": "foo",
  "alias": "bar",
  "alias": "baz"
}
```

These repeated fields could be represented as an array instead:

```
{
  "aliases": ["foo", "bar", "baz"]
}
```

## References

* [Stack Overflow: JSON naming convention][]
* [Naming of JSON Properties - Google Style Guideline][]
* [Stack Overflow discussion on repeated JSON Fields][]

[Stack Overflow: JSON naming convention]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5543490/json-naming-convention
[Naming of JSON Properties - Google Style Guideline]: https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsoncstyleguide.xml?showone=Property_Name_Format#Property_Name_Format
[Stack Overflow discussion on repeated JSON Fields]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21832701/does-json-syntax-allow-duplicate-keys-in-an-object
