---
aip:
  id: 193
  state: approved
  created: 2020-01-15
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: message
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /193
---

# Errors

When error conditions happen, it is very advisable to have a single error response format across all the organization to drive consistency of the managing of documentation, error handling client side, server side, the tracing and others. In addition, this lends us to centralized management of errors to allow for governing and sharing error “types” across api families.

## Guidance

Error responses **must** follow the [RFC 7807][RFC-7807] format. Also, the error responses **should** align with the general format of the API (e.g: JSON) and the format **may** be subject of content type negotiation.

The following listing is an example of an error message:

```
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Content-Type: application/problem+json
Content-Language: en

{
    "type": "https://example.com/probs/out-of-credit",
    "title": "You do not have enough credit.",
    "detail": "Your current balance is 30, but that costs 50.",
    "instance": "/account/12345/msgs/abc",
    "balance": 30,
    "accounts": ["/account/12345",
                 "/account/67890"]
}
```

### Details

While the RFC document remains an authoritative source of information, the rest of this section describe and extend the standard to a small extent.

* Although the `type` property is considered optional in RFC 7807, the error message object **must** include a `type` element as part of this standard. The URI used **should** be relative and use the `https` scheme (as opposed to **may** use `http` or `https`).
* The error message object **should not** include a `status` element (as opposed to **may**) as it is deemed superfluous and redundant.

As a clarifying note, RFC 7807 expects the `instance` element to contain an URI identifying the error instance, e.g: `myapi.com/errors/123`, this value should be useful for troubleshooting if the client application developer includes it in a support request. This could at the same time be a resolvable to a logging system or some other sort of system that can provide more information to the client. Caution should be applied to not leak internal systems information to the API client.

[RFC-7807]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807
