---
aip:
  id: 1000
  state: draft
  created: 2020-01-15
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /1000
---

# Design Philosophy

## RESTful HTTP

The SF AIPs are a set of standards to provide a common user experience for the consumers of the Salesforce REST HTTP APIs.

HTTP is a messaging protocol that defines a set of rules for sending requests and receiving responses between multiple machines. REST is a convention which defines patterns for describing how data state should be delievered using a small set of operations and pre-defined data models. When REST is implemented in HTTP the result is a clear contract between services that defines a concise set of [Methods]({{ '4000' | relative_url}}) to describe the state of [Resources]({{ '2000' | relative_url }}) between multiple systems. What they don't do, is attempt to standardize on the commonality for disparate services. In a particular Services ecosystem -- for example;  Commerce Platform -- having services obey a set of constraints around the way they are exposed helps achieve a level of commonality via convention that will enable them to interplay easily. 

> **Description Through Standardization**

> “*One alternative to explaining everything is to make your service like other services. If all services exposed the same representation formats, and mapped URIs to resources in the same way...well, we can't get rid of client programming altogether, but clients could work on a higher level than HTTP. Conventions are powerful tools: in fact, they are the same tools that REST uses. Event RESTful resource-oriented web service uses URIs to designate resources, and expresses operations in terms of HTTP's uniform interface. The idea here is to apply higher-level conventions than REST's, so that the client programmer doesn't have to write as much code.*” - **Richardson and Ruby, RESTful Web Services**

The SF AIPS define the RESTful implementation of HTTP as standards to be followed by the Salesforce  TMP organization.

## References
* Roy Fielding's [dissertation](https://www.ics.uci.edu/~fielding/pubs/dissertation/rest_arch_style.htm#sec_5_2_1_1), which gave birth to REST.
* MuleSoft [API Best Practices](https://blogs.mulesoft.com/dev/api-dev/api-best-practices-series-intro/) series.
* [Heroku Guide extracted from Platform API work](https://geemus.gitbooks.io/http-api-design/content/en/).
* [Mozilla Developer HTTP Caching](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching).
