---
aip:
  id: 5200
  state: approved
  created: 2020-01-15
  updated: 2020-07-24
  scope: message
js:
  - /assets/js/graphviz/viz.js
  - /assets/js/graphviz/lite.render.js
  - /assets/js/aip/aip-graphviz.js
permalink: /5200
---

# Responses

Some concerns are cross cutting and affect all responses of an API. Standardizing on these concerns promotes consistent responses across our API families and enables customers to employ them more quickly.

## Guidance

Unexpected overload traffic patterns can affect the quality of a service and in dire cases lead to service outages. Adding capacity and enabling elastic growth helps ensure service uptime and reliability but does nothing for prioritization and usage governance. Rate limiting is a cross-cutting concern that applies to the entire service ecosystem. Although rate limiting can be handled within each service, it is best handled via a network appliance higher in the network call stack.

APIs **should** apply rate limiting. Rate limited services **must** return the following headers for rate-limited endpoints:

* `X-Ratelimit-Remaining`: The amount of available quota.
* `X-Ratelimit-Limit`: The maximum available requests per window.
* `X-Ratelimit-Reset`: The remaining time, in milliseconds, until a new window starts.

### Minified response

While a pretty JSON response is more readable, it includes unnecessary white space that adds to the response size. For this reason responses **may** be minified. 

```
{"customer":{"id":"101010","firstName":"Jane","lastName":"Doe"}} // Prefer

{ "customer": { // Not Preferred
   "id": "101010",
   "firstName": "Jane",
   "lastName" : "Doe"
  }
}
```

## Reference

* [Heroku Platform API Design Guide](https://geemus.gitbooks.io/http-api-design/content/en/responses/keep-json-minified-in-all-responses.html)
